we know Earth was like covered in ice
and Glaciers where did that water come
from to become glaciers rain where did
the rain come from the
sky since all motion is relative you
cannot declare that you are not in
motion and everybody else is you can
declare you're not in motion but then as
soon as you go on the other side you're
like oh no I I'm in motion exactly when
the universe was small there's Quantum
phenomenon influencing the entire
universe that is dope as hell
[Music]
this is Star Talk Neil degrass Tyson
here your personal astrophysicist
co-host Chuck Nice hey what's up Neil
Chuck baby all right you got your
sunglasses on your shirt oh I didn't I
didn't even realize that that's was that
just a thing that was you know what that
was because when I came in the building
I was wearing sunglasses and when I
walked in I was like these security
people going to think you're a douche
take these sunglasses off right now like
do not walk through security with these
sunglasses and they're mirrored
sunglasses on top of that you know 85 I
walk in just what we have
here failure to communicate all right we
got a grab bag Cosmic queries today and
you've been pre-loaded Yes yes again
I've never seen any of these questions
neither
have and they come from our fan base
yeah specifically p the highest Echelon
of our fan base patreon those who give
us money yes so what's the category oh
no it's just no category no category
this is the what we used to call
Galactic gumbo gumbo okay which is so
cool and once again we're here in my
office at the Hayden planetarium yes the
Museum of Natural History absolutely oh
yeah this all everything you see in here
well you only see this side but there's
like other views here it looks like the
smartest hoarder in the world lives
here that's honestly what it looks
like some kind of Genius hoarder just
moved in and has a love affair with the
cosmos it's crazy it's like all kinds of
stuff mostly a lot of lot of great books
though like you know what I mean all
around and then of course you know your
icons we you know we see a the boy
Newton's you got a bust of Newt behind
behind the view of the camera right now
yes you can't see it there big creepy
Newton head it's not creepy that is a
creepy looking newon my boy's got his
locks he he's beautiful head of hair
yeah okay but why is why are his eyes
closed he's just like oh they look like
they look like death mask guys yes he's
like I hope they don't find out I'm
gay realize he had no girlfriends his
entire life yeah but he also had no
boyfriends as far as people could tell
okay he's claimed by the gay community
in some books that I've read right but
he never procreated it's it's easier to
think today we might just call him
asexual asexual I think that's just a
simple that's probably what he was yeah
all right go this is John a he says
hello from Texas Texas I was wondering
if particle Fusion why you giving it you
don't know if he has an accent he said
hello from
Texas okay particle Fusion could be used
as renewable energy source as seen in
Spider-Man 2 and if so can it be done
effectively love the show you guys oh
thank you so let me let me say this two
ways so you can extract energy from the
nucleus of an atom in two ways right
take a big atom split it and the mass of
the two products is less than what you
started with we did the mass go it
became energy equals MC s e and the M
they're on opposite sides of an equation
if you get rid of the M you get e on the
other side and that is Vision Vision
that's fion Vision big atom big at
little little come from the other side
you take little atoms and you bring them
together make bigger atoms okay okay
then the atom you ended up with has less
mass than the two atoms you started with
same in Reverse in okay so now we we got
some mass that becomes energy that's
very Co that's Fusion that's cool Fusion
okay so we know how to begin and sustain
and contain Vision right okay a lot of
research went into that to make the bomb
right okay okay that would be
uncontrolled Vision uncontrolled Vision
okay if you're not controlling it it's
explodes and that's where you get the
bomb the Oppenheimer and the a bomb and
all this and there two kinds of a bombs
one used plutonium the other used
uranium wow those are huge atoms all
right you come from the other side you
start with hydrogen the lightest atom
you fuse it you make helium that's what
the sun is doing every moment of every
second of every day 247 okay so that
takes very high temperatures and the
temperatures are so high like what are
you going to put it in right okay um I'm
going to go with Millions ofg hrex it's
millions of degrees millions of degrees
everything you put it in will vaporize
before you even has a chance to do okay
this is one of the challenges of this
exercise and so maybe you can contain it
in a magnetic bottle ooh yeah yo that's
super cool because now you're using a
magnetic forced to contain it that's no
it's brilliant brilliant brilliant it's
brilliant I'm on board let's do
this why didn't we think of that before
what are we waiting for what are we
waiting for so there are different
styles of of this exercise the toac it's
a machine okay that creates a toroidal
volume where you would then have your
plasma very high temperature gas ionized
gas and in there you'd get the fusion so
the problem is wow that's so no no by
the way we've made Fusion bombs right so
we have uncontrolled nuclear fusion
right they're called bombs yes the sun
is in full control of its nuclear fusion
because at the center of the star MH and
the pressure surrounding it from all the
rest of the star keeps it in check right
okay otherwise the whole star would go
go k official term k kaboy I love it
there's no uncertainty about the meaning
of that word you can't can't mess that
up Lou so some of the challenges are how
do we control it right once you get it
started okay and that's we've not been
able to do that effectively really but
recently months ago in the United States
and I think it was at Lawrence Livermore
Labs okay they managed to get more
energy out than they put in than they
put in to make this whole thing happen
well that sounds to me like the N stages
of fusion reactors yes it is what but
they would all the information about
this wasn't
fully reported on uhoh no no I mean it's
just the experiment the energy that goes
in the experiment versus came out it was
net positive okay however what it took
to set up the experiments in the first
place right the whole kit and the
Kaboodle to get to that volume in which
you had the fusion is itself a whole
expenditure of energy
it's a first step to show you that it's
and what you have to do is make
everything else efficient that's around
it on the hope and expectation that one
day you this can like the electric car
like the electric car once you have it
and you're driving it yeah it's doing
great in terms of if you take Renewable
Fuel and use that to put the electricity
in the car what you're doing is you have
you're Net Zero Z but the fact is if you
made more pollution making the car
making the car that makes Noll that
makes no pollution
yes so it was an important test of
concept it made Headlines by the way I
and I was interviewed heavily about it
if I remember on CNN and this sort of
thing so I was very happy about that
because it there's no shortage of
hydrogen in the universe it's the number
one atom right all right yeah did I tell
you I was listening to a radio play one
time there were aliens that were coming
to Earth to suck up our water supply
right because they thrive on hydrogen
right and they knew that water is H2O
H2O right all right and I'm listening to
this they came across the Galaxy to
consume our water supply right to get H
hydrogen when only the most plentiful
thing 98% of all atoms in the universe
are hydrogen these are some stupid
aliens right and so I was very
disappointed in that story yeah you get
a good hydrogen on
Earth come to Earth the best hydrogen
there is yeah no so anyhow so there's no
shortage of hydrogen right and so if we
could perfect this process then it's
unlimited energy for practically zero
cost for the rest of the world and all
of civilization wow and it's not
dependent if the sun is shining or if
the wind is blowing or if the tide is
moving or what oil well you dug right or
it's not dependent on any of that any of
that yeah w sounds like a wonderful
dream well listen we're sounds like
we're on our way that's right but people
are still have some a spook Factor about
nuclear power yeah there's still a if
you told them how many people died
mining coal oh my God to supply their
their energy that we've been using for
the past Century and a half right yeah
it's it's hundreds of thousands of
people oh without a doubt not to mention
how messed up their skin is just because
of it terrible or their lungs the lungs
God I had a geeky childhood okay so I
always wanted to know what was the
longest word in the biggest dictionary
okay and at the time my access to
dictionaries included the random house
under bridged dictionary it's the best
okay I didn't know about the OED but the
Oxford English Dictionary but the random
house was nice and big found the biggest
word yeah okay mhm
it's new monor ultra microscopic silico
canoc
coniosis God bless
you so sorry I'm so sorry that happened
to you that is sensibly abbreviated to
black lung wow is that what that is
that's what that is black lung so num
mono Ultra microscopic okay silic so
that's like the tiny little silicat
inside the pneum
lungs can coniosis so it's you know the
the medical folks staple together all
the all the syllables but so that's coal
and it's cold dust and people died from
this so I'm not here to say fewer will
die with this that's not the right way
to approach this just just demonstrate
the safety of these nuclear plants and
maybe people will come come around num
stuff better known
as just coughing
up I don't know if it's still the
biggest word in that dictionary plus I
don't know if the biggest word is in the
Oxford English Dictionary that's a whole
other thing a whole another another but
any why do we even go oh because the
safety factor is going to matter to
people if they want to sort of vote this
through but we first have to make it
efficient and scalable so that you can
have one in every city or wherever yeah
so it so John it's not happening anytime
soon and by the way it has no byproducts
such as what you get with vision Vision
has all these yeah called nuclear waste
is what we call nuclear waste we got to
put it someplace and it sticks around
for 150 200 years or more or more right
right right have you ever wanted one of
your questions on the universe answered
we all have questions about the universe
black holes to quazars quantum
entanglement wormholes there is no end
to the depths of cosmic curiosity well
the entry level of patreon membership
with Star Talk gets you just that I
think it starts at $5 a month you have
access to the question line that reaches
our Cosmic query programming and not
only that we produce a special Cosmic
queries installment just for patreon
members if you weren't the director of
the Hayden planetarium what do you think
you would be doing okay but this had to
be another Universe it wouldn't happen
in this universe okay I'd be I'd be a a
a songwriter for Broadway musicals oo so
that's the entry level and the perks
ascend from there uh there's a level in
fact where we send you a an autographed
copy of one of my latest books uh right
now it's Star Messenger Cosmic
perspectives on civilization and it's
signed with my fancy fountain pen with
purple ink so I I invite you to just
check the link below and all of that
money goes to our ability to experiment
with new ways of bringing the universe
down to earth so thank you for those who
have already joined and we welcome
others to participate in this Grand
Adventure of what it is to bring the
universe down to earth
as always keep looking up all right this
is uh
Charlie cervone who says hello Dr Tyson
Lord nice Charlie from Hudson Ohio here
this may be Elementary my dear doctor
but I've heard it said when discussing
the accelerated expansion of the
universe and the Hubble constant that
the further away objects are in the
universe the more red shifted they are
and therefore receding away from us
faster wouldn't it stand to reason then
that object closer to us in time and
space are receding more slowly and that
the expansion is slowing over time can
you please help me understand how this
works thank you for expanding all of our
Horizons oh I see what he did there yeah
did you see that yeah that was nice very
Charlie we're on to you Charlie very
classy so the first half was correct
right all right as an object is farther
away yes the way the expansion profile
of the universe works is that those
objects that are farther are receding
faster from us okay okay those objects
that are nearby are reeding more slowly
okay as the universe expands these
things will all go faster and so to
think or suggest that it's nearby
objects are receding more slowly so
therefore aren't we what did he imply so
what he's saying is that wouldn't stand
the reason that the objects closest to
us in time and space are receding more
more slowly and that the expansion is
slowing oh okay so over time over time
cuz you got to throw a Time factor in
there if you waited a billion years
those objects would be farther away from
us and moving faster exactly so no
nothing slowing down nothing right yeah
right at all as a matter of fact it's
speeding up right speeding up speeding
up is that's the that's the real problem
that's the real problem that's the real
problem it's actually I don't want to
Value judge nature I'm not going to call
it a problem okay I'm just going to call
it an observation all right okay okay
universe is expanding without limit such
that the universe will
end not with a bang but with a whimper
oh that's terrible and not in fire but
in ice and you call that not a
problem what the heck is a problem then
that's not a problem no all right so
there you have it I hope that satisfies
you Charlie but thanks for the good
question and the uh great word play so
this is Danny K he says hello Commander
Tyson and Sergeant nice no don't do that
Danny uhuh it's Dr Tyson and Lord nice
don't be giving us maybe he doesn't know
why they call you Lord so he's just he's
think of giving you titles yeah okay all
right all right yeah no so maybe he's a
new subscriber to the series he doesn't
have the backstory he doesn't have the
backstory of Lord nice all right let me
give it to you Danny real quick okay
don't do that that's not the back story
is that not the back story
no I'm joking Danny I'm joking the what
what happened who was she we we had she
was a fourstar general or three star
general that's a three three star
general we had Major General on
interviewing her about was a climate
change or something yeah it was climate
change something all right and we had uh
Charles Lou Charles Lou was on Charles
did some world word play with Gilbert
and Sullivan right okay and he said you
are the very model of modern major
general she's a major general we were
doing Q&A and people said Dr Tyson and
Chuck right right and you said you got
all pissy about it and you said why
can't I why don't I have a title I have
a title right everybody got a title but
me and the major general said we will
forever more call you lord lord nice
that's what it was it's stuck ever since
it's stuck ever since that's right so
the major general gave me that Danny
yeah and that's an earlier episode of
Star Talk well here we go I salute thee
he says Danny
King Dango hailing from the flat lands
of the Netherlands a question I have
seeing as to so many sittings and other
archaeological discoveries are being
made underwater with this sudden rise in
water volume be a result of those ice
thingies melting due to global warming
or could it be due to the Earth's
position and distance from the Sun and
the
Moon so
when we have
underwater archaeological
finds where there were
civilizations and there's now covered in
water is that global warming rising sea
level uh melted icebergs what would
cause that what he and that's yes yes
okay next question all right here we go
so he's from the Netherlands the
Netherlands and so they will be in very
high demand as sea levels rise yes see
it's a question suitable from some for
someone some from the whole country is
canals the whole country is canals and
dams and dams and D Andes right okay
they're going to be in high demand as
sea levels rise and we want to keep our
land masses help us make these canals
and dkes and you know we do it a little
bit in New Orleans there's whole
sections that are below or at sea level
that get flooded easily so they have the
levies this sort of thing right so the
Dutch are experts at this I mean come on
now world so I'm not surprised by this
question it's very much culturally
informed and inspired so as you go back
in time to the last ice age we know
Earth was like covered in ice and
Glaciers mm where did that water come
from to become glaciers I'm going to say
rain rain where did the rain come from
the
sky where the sky come
from okay how did the rain get in the
sky well it evaporated from someplace
else from where from the land it was no
no the land is Frozen the oceans the
oceans it evaporates up and then it
becomes clouds and then it goes some
place and then it rains down and then it
freezes snows down sow not rain snows
down freezes does it return to the ocean
Well it can't cuz it's frozen thank you
so then what systematically happens to
the oceans oh they got to get shrink
they systematically drain and as they do
that more and more land m is man that's
correct coastlines grow people go hey
this is a good place to build a
city hey guys hey y y'all won't before
we had like Advanced climate
modeling so no doubt there's no end of
cities that just got flooded as we
slowly came out of the Ice Age gotcha
and they had to move Inland all right
but that would have happened slowly as
as the water melted once again have you
ever seen on a map it might be true
elsewhere but I noticed especially North
America off the east coast if they show
the terrain of the bottom of the ocean
there's like a what we call the
continental shelf right which is the
same Coastline it just pushed out a
little further and then you have a big
drop off okay when New York when it used
to dump its garbage in the ocean it
wouldn't do it on the Shelf it would
take it to the Deep part and then drop
it out right so it goes way down okay so
you say where' that shelf come from that
was the coastline when the oceans were
less gotcha okay so you can imagine New
York City having been built way off on
that edge it'd be completely underwater
now right okay so the time scale of that
is thousands of years we're now going to
have that happen in decades yes yes we
are so uh there you go um we'll be
calling you
Danny and all your all your friends in
the Netherlands in 50,000 years going to
dig up what's this city they called it
New York New what the heck yeah right
well to him it' be New Amsterdam oh
that's what it
was yeah the Dutch had a little action
here all where where all of all of where
you live in this city I live in lower
man L Lower Manhattan that was New
Amsterdam yeah man wow all right Danny
there you have it uh well please bring a
bucket the bail we going to need you
bring a bucket buddy because we're in
trouble all right this is Shane a
McDaniel he says hello Neil hello Chuck
time dilation discussions usually
involve one object moving faster than
others to slow down its relative time
alternatively can an object somehow move
slower than everything else to speed up
its relative time how might it slow down
as such H that implies that you can
establish a speed absolutely measured
but all the speeds are relative to so
you can't say here this one thing is not
moving and everything else is you're not
making an absolute statement there right
you could say I don't think I'm moving
because I'm measuring everybody else to
be moving M but what are they saying
they're saying you're moving by me
exactly okay which is the whole train
thing that's the whole train the when
you're looking out the window when
you're looking out the window yeah and
you see you see the train pulling off
yeah said are we moving backward moving
backwards no the other train right it's
right relative to the other train
relative to the other train so since all
motion is relative hence the name of the
theories the theories of Relativity okay
since all motion is relative you cannot
declare that you are not in motion and
everybody else is Goa everybody can
declare they're not in motion right and
everybody else is so so you can declare
you're not in motion but then as soon as
you go on the other side you're like oh
no I'm in Mo exactly you know how this
came up it came up in a football game
get out I got a text from who's the
coach of the Seattle Seahawks uh Pete
Carol Pete Carol texted me he said Neil
we just had a play where they want to
call it against us where they had a what
happens if you lateral backward uh
forward forward lateral that's an
illegal forward illegal forward pass
illegal pass because the the quarterback
the receiver has to be behind the
quarterback you can only go backwards
provided the quarterback has crossed the
line ofage pass the line of scrimage
right but otherwise it's a forward pass
you can forward so they were in a play
where the quarterback Russell Wilson
he's he he can't he doesn't see an open
receiver so he scrambles he crosses the
line of scrimmage he sees one of his
running backs and he pitches to his
running back okay no sorry he pitches
backwards to his running back uhhuh and
then he goes down and the running back
gets a first down and I think they
scored on this play okay and the other
team said no that was a forward lateral
and
illegal if you go to the videotape the
point on the field of Russell Wilson
releases the ball mhm is behind the
point on the field where the running
back catches the ball oh yeah from the
point of view of the field right it is a
forward pass right but they were running
so fast running together together so it
relative to one another they still
remained a backwards lateral correct wow
correct wow correct wow and it's not
their fault they were running faster
than the ball sideways motion right okay
so in other words he was running so fast
forward what happens with them black
players can't even tell can't tell her
where where the ball
is this Negro is running fast so he's
running so fast that when he throws the
ball backwards right the ball actually
going forward right he throws the ball
backwards but he's running so fast that
when the guy catches the ball he's past
the point where even though he's behind
behind the whole time okay so I analyzed
it and I tweeted back and I said
according to the field it's a forward
pass but according to the moving
reference frame of the players it was a
legit lateral lateral and that's you
know what that's called a Galilean
transformation oh they what's even got a
name that's got a name a gan
transformation you take one coordinate
system and transfer it into another and
it's a completely legitimate it's it's
just a different coordinate system and
from the coordinate system of the
running players everything was legit and
you should not penalize them just
because they can run so fast and so the
play stayed I gave P Carol some extra
ammo to make sure it wouldn't get
overturned that's cool man yes that's
still on online I mean still that's
great so anyway so that's this so that's
relativity and the nutshell right there
look them up Galilean transformation
transformation and we talked about this
a little in some other where you know
you've been on the freeway and there's
always somebody who's racing somebody
else and they're darting In and Out
Among the cars right and I I was in a
hurry okay you're going 60 M an hour
they're going 90 M an hour okay In and
Out Among the cars however they're not
really going 90 mes an hour relative to
you right they're going 30 m 30 m hour
because it's 90 minus 60 right so it
feels
dangerous when you see this but as long
as everybody is just moving at 60 miles
an hour as far as they're concerned
you're standing still and they're
driving 30 miles an hour among you right
so it gets dangerous if you decide to
not do 60 miles an hour and just turn
the car while it's coming by then
definite accident and the accident will
feel the 90 miles an hour because his
body is moving 90 miles and then it
moves zero and then basically you don't
survive that so it's it's lethally
playing with the laws of
physics the J from State Farm I hope you
listen Jak State
Farm no this would be J for Jake and
flow you need Flow from Progressive
exactly double that up Jake and flow all
right here we go this is caric caric
says hello Dr Tyson Lord nice this is
caric from Berlin Germany o if the
earliest light from the universe to
reach us is represented by the cosmic
microwave background
radiation which is from 380,000 years
after the big bang yep how did we
determine how far back from that point
the Big Bang took place so he's saying
how do you know 380,000 years gave you
first light from the source of the light
which would have been the Big Bang
itself so where we get 380,000 years
that's what he's asking okay so a lot of
the action took place in the first
fractions of a second there's an
excellent book written by Steve Weinberg
a brilliant physicist won the Nobel
Prize he wrote a very successful physics
book uhhuh small called the first three
minutes that's amazing and in there it
takes you from the moment of the
explosion of the Big Bang to what went
on in the universe after 3 minutes and I
turn those first three minutes into most
of the first chapter of my book
astrophysics for people in a hurry mhm
cuz the first chapter is called in the
beginning ooh that's the name of the
first chapter so I detail it so there
another book I believe that's that has a
chapter I think there's another book
with a chapter that's starts in the
begin I'm trying to think I'm pretty
sure okay you keep thinking about that
you you call me when you know yeah it'll
come to me it'll
come that was the old joke when you were
a kid how do you know God was a baseball
player uh I don't know how he started in
the big inning
oh wow yeah how do you know God wasn't a
comedian that
joke that was like safe for elementary
school joke so what you do is you create
all the physics necessary to give you
that Cosmic microwave background gotcha
and once you know how much mass is in
the universe and you ask
yourself what must have been going on in
the universe to give it that state where
the photons Run free and you get the
cosmic microwave background once you do
all of this the time it takes to get to
that point turns out to be 380,000 years
that's amazing right it's all very
wellestablished physics and you know
what's funny right now there are people
hearing this and they're like
no it is so counterintuitive it's like
oh no that's what you believe and what
they don't understand is that we can see
the cosmic microwave background it's
it's not a belief we can see it we
measure it meas measure it yeah yeah and
so we know what matter must be doing in
order to create that environment exactly
and we're expanding now so here's what
would have to happen if we were wrong
somehow the universe was birthed into
that state but with nothing before it
but we can account for that provided
there was a universe before it using
known laws of physics as d Ed by Steven
Weinberg in his book from 1970s that
book came out and and in my book I give
a full exposition of the first the you
know first moments of the universe in
fact one of these chairs right the
onesair that were Awards to him for
writing I won for an essay called in the
beginning in the beginning which
basically birthed that whole first
chapter of my book look at that the
universe is
[Music]
crowning oh Lord I don't know nothing
about bre no universes oh
I wonder how obscure that reference is
today I'm sure so most people have no
idea what I'm talking about you're
talking about they have no idea Gone
With the Wind yeah exactly you know and
most people have no idea okay yeah maybe
they'll look it up it'll be a meme
somewhere after somebody put it out as a
meme so that the kids can know the joke
that I made I don't know nothing about
birth and
universes so it's known laws of physics
that get us to that point right that
allow us to conclude how how much time
before that go back to go back CU you
get to that place and now you can go
back from everything that you know at
that place correct that's really God I
love science oh you know you know what
else as you go back matter is behaving
in all these ma all these ways under the
temperature pressure energy and all of
this you can make predictions in that
time that says you know 98 out of 100
atoms in the universe should be hydrogen
and that's what we see on the other side
of that fence fantastic man right that's
it's it's extraord brilliant yes it's
brilliant yes I love it yes all right oh
by the way that cosmetic microwave was
predicted it was predicted by a guy
named George Gamo George Gamo G gamov oh
gamov end in A W but it's Russian so
it's a v sound he was on a paper with
two other two or three other authors
right where they said if the universe
began with an explosion knowing what we
know about quantum physics and matter
and energy and temperature and time what
should have happened it would expand it
would begin to cool you would the the
energy would become matter the matter
would coalesce and at this point light
should Escape we should look out in the
universe for a universe that has a
temperature of about
5 and so we looked yes and we found a
universe that was 3
de yes they were so
off idiots so rich God a friend of our
show yeah uh he characterized this
prediction he said it's like saying
that a 50 foot Flying Saucer predicting
a 50ft flying saucer was going to land
on the lawn of the White House but it
was a 30-foot
flying that's good right so the
fundamentals of the prediction are
really right and the details are
something that would come out later wow
yeah so we're good back there that's all
by the way if one day we need to sort of
rethink the Big Bang it would not be to
discard what works it would be to see
that the Big Bang fits fits into an even
larger larger
picture univ right and the Press is
always trying to ditch the Big Bang
they're always pooping on the Big Bang
because they think it's just we're just
making stuff up yeah because it's it's
not going to be one of these things
where it's just like oh we were just
completely wrong and now that's not a
thing at all no that doesn't that
doesn't happen anymore right no it's
like it happened before the year 1600
right but after then we test everything
and it's it doesn't happen that way
it'll be a further explanation of what
we already know it'll be a deeper
understanding understanding of what we
already know correct right I love love
it hey Star Talk fans I don't know if
you know this but the audio version of
the podcast actually posts a week in
advance of the video version and you can
get that in Spotify an apple podcast and
most other podcast Outlets that are out
there multiple ways to ingest all that
is Cosmic on Star talk okay let's do a
quick light lightning round because we
run out of time all right this is Mo
Fury he says hi Dr Tyson name mo mo cool
love that name is Fury Mo Fury he's uh
can't be real he's a Marvel character
know he's the less menacing brother of
Nick Fury I'm Mo
Fury hey Thor what's your
problem it's me Fury Captain America hey
you got an attitude or something I don't
know what your problem is it's me Mo
okay I don't have an eye patch I wear
glasses all right he says hey Dr Tyson
Baron nice okay I live on a pale blue
dot in Tennessee called
Nashville I don't know what that means
as such as I dream about exploring the
cosmos let's say we have one world war
in the next Century or two well this is
off to a positive start I know right
right given that do you believe Humanity
will be galaban around the solar system
by then I don't mean governments I'm
talking about normal workingclass people
who live and work all over the system
like the stories in the expanse great
show thank you Mo uh Sans the spherical
wormholes of course why does this have
to do with another world
war would we be able to
escape because regular people have the
capability of exiting this planet for
another destination if regular people
have that capacity so does the
military who might be chasing your ass
you're the enemy okay I will answer this
with a quote from Albert Einstein okay
if I may please do I do not
know how World War III will be
fought but I know that World War I will
be fought with sticks and stones
oh that is so disturbing oh my God that
s chills down my spine because that just
says everything says everything about
everything says everything about
everything yes like we're done there
that's it that's it that's a mic drop in
a half yes yeah they had mics back then
if they had mics which were made out of
sticks took a stick and put a bunch of
dead leaves on top is this thing on you
tapping it you Tapp the dead
Le okay sliping another what do you got
all right here we go step Banker says hi
guys a question about time is it
possible to measure a length of time
shorter than the
stepo or zepto
zepto I can't say it zepto okay uh if so
can we measure infinitely small spans of
Time how would we have ever gotten to
the point in time if there were possibly
an infinite number of moments between
the bang and now wow this guy I love you
man cuz you look there's a little bit of
Zeno's Paradox in there which is which
is not a thing and this dude smokes weed
okay I'm tell you Stephen Banker that's
a weed question right there that's a
weed question okay all right I I didn't
know that's a category of question so I
love it couple of points there right
there's something called the plank
length Okay the plank length is the
smallest unit of space within which
nothing no laws of physics have any
meaning
okay so in quantum physics space is
quantized by these little units of space
okay okay so the time it takes light to
cross a plank length a plank length it
seems to me would be the shortest unit
of time because there's nothing that can
take place inside of a PL a plank length
oo that is the the pixels right of life
so it's like you're traveling in in
between the actual pixels that make up
the picture itself yes yes so you go
pixel to pixel but there's nothing in
the pixel for you right because a pixel
is just there there's no more detail
there for you okay so that would be the
shortest unit of time possible anything
shorter than that I don't know that you
could measure it nor would there be
anything there to measure right so
there's no medium there no nothing
there's nothing there to to to to to for
you to put any kind of ruler up to and
say this is where we are this is where
we going there units smaller than that
have no meaning right doesn't make a
difference in the quantum Universe in
the quantum Universe has no by the way
general relativity requires space to be
continuous and not quantized if you want
to marry general relativity in quantum
physics you need some somebody's got to
be there for the cereem for the shotgun
marriage because a shotgun marriage was
taking place in the early Universe
because quantum physics is the physics
of the small general relativity is the
large scale Universe when the universe
was
small there's Quantum phenomenon
influencing the entire universe cuz the
universe at one time was small okay so
let's say you could divide time
infinitely small Zeno's Paradox is you
know Zeno's Paradox I don't you don't
know zenos Paradox okay you want to you
have a destination well you got to
travel half that far MH now with what's
left over you got to travel half that
far what's say you got to travel half
that far are we there yet
you got to travel half okay you keep
doing this you're never getting there
never getting there you're never ever
going to get there but you end up
getting there right so that's Zeno's
Paradox exactly okay so we would learn
how to solve this mathematically it's
because the sum of those halves even
though there's an infinite number of
them they sum to a finite answer in a
finite amount of time that is dope as
hell okay that's amazing yeah so this
it's where it's the finite containing
the infinite yes brilliantly worded
that's amazing Lord
nice yes the finite can contain the
infinite and indeed it does and it does
that's great yeah yeah so he shouldn't
worry about that that that part of the
question that part of the question yeah
okay fast one last one all right here's
last last one
Alan hrj Al hrj okay your new name is Al
okay this from Al Al
says you rename people just for your own
convenience what can I say man I hope I
got your name right buddy uh or person
hello Dr Tyson Lord nice I was wanting
your thoughts on if transporter like in
Star Trek could one day just be possible
M PS Dr Tyson I saw you in an episode of
Velma it was awesome what's Velma you
know what Velma is no what's Velma Velma
is from Scooby-Doo I know oh Velma the
woman in Scooby-Doo named Velma yeah had
her own show on HBO get out and it's
she's in high school the dog doesn't
exist yet and it's really sort of the
birth of the the Mystery Machine it's
the roots of their Origins oh wow yes I
had I had a brief cameo in it okay yeah
good for you I think I was a teacher I
forgot exactly what it has to make if
I'm GNA be a camera it's got to make
some sense right I'm not going to be
like you're not gonna be a drug dealer
what's upma what you need today girl
[Laughter]
it's got to make some philosophical
sense that I am in the in the program
okay all right so anyway here's the deal
Transporters which uh break down your
molecules inside of a machine that
remembers the imprint of your molecular
structure in every single detail then
turns that into a beam of energy
transports it someplace else shines that
beam of energy to another place where it
then reconfigures all of those molecules
in the same configuration so that bang
now you have been reassembled molecule
by molecule could that one day be
possible okay I said I'd give a sound
bite answer this is going to be hard
okay okay are you ready y all right in
1900 New York City there were horses
everywhere yes there were and where you
have horses you have manure oh that's
for sure I read I I have found this hard
to believe but it's maybe it's right I
read on average a horse poops 30 lbs of
manure a Dayo it's in the streets flies
are attracted to it oh God back then
there were no supermarkets people sold
their goods on the street on Street
carts including fish and so it was nasty
that's nasty unsanitary terrible and
people trying to find solutions to this
do you give horses some different kind
of feed so there's less poop do you put
something in the feed so the Flies don't
want to reproduce in it do you like what
do you do right and how do you C away
the poop well you got to bring in other
horses to and put it in a wagon that
they drag out but then they're pooping
while they're dragging out the poop that
they're taking out of the day okay this
is poop elicious so so how do you solve
this problem you invent the car there
you go okay right the car solved that
problem right I claim I assert that the
transporter as brilliant an idea as that
was which allowed the original series to
not have to land rockets on surfaces
which would have been a whole overhead
of special effects so they said we got
we need another way to do this it also
ruins most of the story
lines no you need a place for to put
your rocket you know and you can't right
and you can't beam into a place to get
the job done yeah you can't get the job
yeah you got to land you got to land and
get out of the rocket that sucks so it
was a brilliant visual mechanism
vocabulary for this storytelling okay
I'm thinking by then no you won't get
transported we just open a wormhole oh
there you go you step through now you're
Bo you're not disassembled and
reassembled with the risk that maybe MH
something goes wrong using the structure
of quanti space thank you there it is
and so any place you would otherwise
beam you just simply open the Wormhole
Stu through so I think that like the car
solved the PO the poop problem wormholes
will solve the transporter problem let
me tell you something that is a much
better answer than I ever thought you
were give I mean that's really good
answer and so ends the next episode of
Star Talk Cosmic queries grab bag
Edition which Chuck still keeps calling
Galactic Gumbo all right always good to
have you Chuck always a pleasure all
right Neil degrass Tyson here we're out
of time as always keep looking up
[Music]